So this is just kind of a brief overview
on some helper things that you can do with React
just to kind of like make it easier to work with.
So one of them is, we're using Vite,
so Vite will take care of NodeM for you automatically,
but NodeM, if you're not familiar with it,
is just basically telling the tools
that you're working with,
is like, am I in development mode
or am I in production mode?
And usually it's assumed that you're in production mode
and then you only set it to development mode
when you're actually doing dev work.
This used to be a thing that you had to set it explicitly,
and that's why I still mention it here.
So if you're doing like webpack,
you might still have to set it explicitly
of like, I'm in dev mode right now.
This is important to React because React has a lot
of like helpers and better error messages
and all that kind of stuff when you're in dev mode,
but the actual executable of React is a lot slower
and it's four times bigger.
So, or at least that's what it was,
I haven't checked recently how big it is,
but it was quite big.
So if you're using Vite,
if you're following along with me,
if you're using Next, if you're using Remix,
they all set NodeM for you automatically.
If you're using something like webpack directly,
you might have to set it yourself.
One of the reasons I also bring this up
is that make sure this gets set to production
when you actually do go out to production.
That becomes important.
Famously Slack shipped React in dev mode
for a very, very long time,
and they actually saw a massive increase
in like performance at Slack
because all they had to do was
switch NodeM to production, right?
Which is a very dumb reason
to waste a lot of people's time and resources, right?
So, that's one.
Strict mode, let's go do that right now.
So, strict mode is a kind of React mode
you can set things in.
So we're just gonna go to app.jsx
and we're gonna say at the top,
import strict mode from React,
and we're just gonna wrap our entire app in it.
Strict mode.
So, what is strict mode?
It's just like an extra set of checks
that React will do things for you normally,
but in strict mode it'll say like,
hey, you're executing in strict mode,
I'm not gonna let you do this.
Usually what it is, is like,
if you're using things that are about
to be removed from React,
it'll give you a big warning.
It's like, hey, this has been warned
that this is gonna be removed
from a future version of React.
I'm not going to let you use this
because you're in strict mode.
So they do that so that people know in advance
that stuff's gonna be removed from React.
So, that's what strict mode is.
Yeah, continue to double render your components
just to make sure that all the effects are run twice, right?
It can catch subtle bugs of like,
sometimes you have effects that are doing something one time
and working differently another time.
That's kind of what they're supposed to catch.
If you're asking me how many times
has that caught something for me,
the answer is not really,
because like once you're in the mindset
of like how effects and state is supposed to work,
it's pretty rare that you would get outside of that.
Last thing here,
we're gonna install the DevTools.
So, I have a link down here for you.
This should take you to the React docs.
And they have DevTools available for Chrome,
Firefox, and Edge.
They used to have it for Safari,
but I guess no one uses Safari, so they took it away.
No one uses Firefox,
but I'm happy they still maintain that one.
So yeah, let me go show you Firefox.
You should just be able to click in here and say add.
I've already installed it, so mine's gonna stay there.
It's the same thing with Chrome.
And then what's cool about this,
let me make my DevTools a little bit smaller.
You should see down here at the end,
components and profiler.
So you get two little things that you get added
by the React DevTools.
And so let's just go look at components.
You can see here I have an app component, order pizza.
This is kind of the expected order of components
that we have inside of our app here.
If I click on order,
I can also see all the hooks that happen,
which is pretty cool, right?
I can see everything coming in from,
these are the pizza types, right?
You can see I have a pepperoni medium.
Here's something kind of fun you can do.
You can actually edit this directly.
So if I hit this to, I think it's something like that.
I break it, that's cool.
There we go.
All right, so notice this is barbecue chicken.
I can actually edit this directly to be pepperoni.
And notice when I hit enter,
this is gonna become pepperoni, right?
Sometimes that can be useful, right?
I can edit this to be small.
It can be useful for debugging just to see like,
if I change this to be this, what happens?
Yeah, again here,
you can see all the props that come into this one.
Notice that props, does it actually let you,
it does let you edit props.
That used to not be true.
How cool is that?
So that's that.
I'll show you one other trick that I find pretty useful.
All right, so if I,
let's say I wanna like investigate this radio buttons.
I can click inspect here, right?
So I click inspect.
Obviously that takes me into the inspector.
It doesn't take me into the React DevTools,
but if I just go over to the React DevTools,
usually it'll take you directly to that component,
but it's probably because it's in the,
larger component.
Oh yeah, this time it did.
Okay, so that time it took me over to the pizza, right?
This helps, right now we only have three components.
By the end of this course,
we'll probably have like 50-ish,
just because we'll introduce things like the router
that have a lot of layers to it.
That can be super useful
for finding a component deeply buried in a tree.
The last thing I'll show you is that we have that,
and now I can hit dollar sign R.
This is the component that I have selected
in the React components, right?
So you can see this is actually the pepperoni pizza.
It's the last thing that I selected
in the component tree here,
which is more of a party trick
than it is useful, to be honest with you.
I don't find myself wanting
to programmatically interact with it very much,
but it is there, which is pretty cool.
I mean, just another, this is totally unrelated to React,
but I don't know if you click on this
and you hit dollar sign zero,
you'll get the last thing you selected in the inspector,
which is that I find myself doing that quite a bit more.
So I introduced those now to you,
just so that for the rest of the course,
if you have any questions or concerns,
you can reference them kind of as we go.
There is the profiler as well.
We're gonna talk less about that,
but let's see if I just start recording
and do a bunch of stuff here.
Oh, sorry, don't do that right now.
All right, so blah, blah, blah.
And I click stop.
All right, Flame Graph isn't super interesting right now,
neither is the ranked view,
but this is gonna show you kind of the performance profile
with the Flame Graph.
And if you have a big React app
and you wanna see what is going slow
and what's broken down,
this is designed to help you with that, specific to React.
I mean, these are kind of cool.
I hadn't seen these before.
So the way that React works is it has commits, right?
So they're basically like packets
of things that have changed.
And you can see what caused the update,
how long it took, what the priority was,
because you can have deferred and immediate updates.
There's all sorts of fun stuff you can do.
We're not talking about performance
so much in this particular course.
We might touch on that more intermediate
or maybe in a different React performance course.
One thing, just kind of as a general note with React,
it's generally fast enough.
And when I say that, you kind of get to write,
React can be fairly naive in terms of like
not worrying about performance,
not worrying about commits or updates
or anything like that.
My advice to you is just continue writing React that way
for the most part.
Only introduce the performance enhancements
when you have a problem.
So state it differently, solve problems you have.
Don't try to anticipate problems that you might have
because you usually are wrong
about the problems you're about to have.
And while the performance enhancements for React work,
they work great,
they make the code harder to read and harder to debug.
And that's why I say don't do the performance enhancements
until you need them
because it becomes harder to work with your code.